content/home/about.md, before:

+++
# About/Biography widget.
widget = "about"
active = true
date = 2016-04-20T00:00:00

# Order that this section will appear in.
weight = 5

# List your academic interests.
[interests]
  interests = [
    "Personality and Individual Differences",
    "Organizational Research Methods"
  ] 

# List your qualifications (such as academic degrees).
[[education.courses]]
  course = "PhD in Industrial/Organizational Psychology"
  institution = "Louisiana Tech University"
  year = 2015

[[education.courses]]
  course = "MA in Industrial/Organizational Psychology"
  institution = "Louisiana Tech University"
  year = 2012

[[education.courses]]
  course = "BSc in Psychology"
  institution = "Louisiana State University"
  year = 2008
 
+++

# Biography

Christopher M. Castille is an Assistant Professor of Management at Nicholls State University. He teaches courses on Human Resource Management (HRM), including HR Analytics, Managing Human Capital, Human Relations, and Performance and Compensation Management. His research interests include the relationship between ethical workplace behavior and individual differences factors (e.g., personality traits). He also has a stream of research devoted to organizational research methods and open science practice.

He currently co-directs the People Analytics Lab out of Nicholls State University, which focuses on exposing students to problems in the people analytics domain and providing organizations with evidence-based solutions to people analytics problems.

Commit message:

Update research interests to be consistent across site: People Analytics, Personality in the Workplace, Open Science

content/home/about.md, after:

---
widget: about
headless: true

# Order that this section appears on the page.
weight: 20

title: Biography

# Choose the user profile to display
# This should be the username of a profile in your `content/authors/` folder.
# See https://wowchemy.com/docs/get-started/#introduce-yourself
author: admin
---

+++
# About/Biography widget.
widget = "about"
active = true
date = 2016-04-20T00:00:00

# Order that this section will appear in.
weight = 5

# List your academic interests.
[interests]
  interests = [
    "People Analytics",
    "Personality in the Workplace",
    "Open Science"
  ] 

# List your qualifications (such as academic degrees).
[[education.courses]]
  course = "PhD in Industrial/Organizational Psychology"
  institution = "Louisiana Tech University"
  year = 2015

[[education.courses]]
  course = "MA in Industrial/Organizational Psychology"
  institution = "Louisiana Tech University"
  year = 2012

[[education.courses]]
  course = "BSc in Psychology"
  institution = "Louisiana State University"
  year = 2008
 
+++

# Biography

Christopher M. Castille is an Assistant Professor of Management at Nicholls State University. He teaches courses on Human Resource Management (HRM), including HR Analytics, Managing Human Capital, Human Relations, and Performance and Compensation Management. His research interests include the relationship between ethical workplace behavior and individual differences factors (e.g., personality traits). He also has a stream of research devoted to organizational research methods and open science practice.

He currently co-directs the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou, which is dedicated to advancing research and teaching in organizational behavior, human resource management, and workplace analytics. The lab focuses on educating the next generation of organizational leaders by helping them understand how people work, lead, and thrive in organizations, using data and evidence to become better employees, managers, and leaders.
