content/publication/_index.md, before:

title: Research

# Custom page layout
type: page
layout: publication/list

# Optional banner image (relative to `assets/media/` folder).
banner:
  caption: 'Research from the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou'
  image: ''
---

My research bridges rigorous psychological science with practical organizational applications. I focus on understanding how individual differences shape workplace behavior, developing better methods for organizational research, and translating scientific insights into actionable HR strategies.

Below are three interconnected areas that define my scholarly work.

---

<h2 class="research-theme-paid">Personality and Individual Differences (PAID) at Work</h2>

{{< callout >}}
How do individual characteristics—personality traits, values, and abilities—influence workplace outcomes? This research stream examines both the "bright side" (e.g., conscientiousness, meaningful work) and "dark side" (e.g., Machiavellianism, unethical behavior) of personality at work, with a focus on occupational fit and person-environment alignment.
{{< /callout >}}

### Selected Publications (Sorted by Year)

**Simonet, D. V., & Castille, C. M.** (2020). The search for meaningful work: A network analysis of personality and the job characteristics model. *Personality and Individual Differences*, *154*, 109569. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.2019.109569

**Castille, C. M., Castille, A. R., & Smith, R. W.** (2019). Assessing ideal personalities at work: Is it all just a little bit of history repeating? *Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice*, *12*(4), 407-410. https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/qan42

**Castille, C. M., Buckner, J. E., & Thoroughgood, C. N.** (2018). Prosocial citizens without a moral compass? Examining the relationship between Machiavellianism and unethical pro-organizational behavior. *Journal of Business Ethics*, *149*(4), 919-930. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-016-3079-9

**Castille, C., & Fultz, A.** (2018). How does collaborative cheating emerge? A case study of the Volkswagen emissions scandal. *Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences*. https://doi.org/10.24251/hicss.2018.014

**Castille, C. M., Kuyumcu, D., & Bennett, R. J.** (2017). Prevailing to the peers' detriment: Organizational constraints motivate Machiavellians to undermine their peers. *Personality and Individual Differences*, *104*, 29-36. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.2016.07.026

**Castille, C. M.** (2015). *Bright or dark, or virtues and vices? A reexamination of the big five and job performance* [Doctoral dissertation, Louisiana Tech University]. https://doi.org/10.18297/etd/194

**Castille, C. M., & Sheets, T. L.** (2012). The Five Factor Model of personality and employees' excessive use of technology. *Computers in Human Behavior*, *28*(5), 1947-1953. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2012.05.014

**Levy, J. J., Castille, C. M., & Farley, J. A.** (2011). An investigation of musical performance anxiety in the marching arts. *Medical Problems of Performing Artists*, *26*(1), 23-28. https://doi.org/10.21091/mppa.2011.1004

---

<h2 class="research-theme-methods">Organizational Research Methods</h2>

{{< callout >}}
Rigorous people analytics requires high-quality methods. This research develops and validates better approaches to organizational research, including open science practices that increase transparency and reproducibility, and techniques for understanding and controlling method variance in applied settings.
{{< /callout >}}

### Open Science & Replication (Sorted by Year)

**Banks, G. C., Rasmussen, L. M., Tonidandel, S., Pollack, J. M., Hausfeld, M. M., Williams, C., Albritton, B. H., Allen, J. A., Bastardoz, N., Batchelor, J. H., ... Castille, C. M., ... & others** (2025). Women's and men's authorship experiences: A prospective meta-analysis. *Perspectives on Psychological Science*. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1177/01492063251315701

**Castille, C. M.** (2024). A Primer on Open Science for Industrial-Organizational Psychologists. *The Industrial-Organizational Psychologist*, *61*(3), 45-58. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2022.70

**Guzzo, R. A., & Castille, C. M.** (2024). Translational science, open science, and accelerating practical impact. *The Industrial-Organizational Psychologist*, *61*(4). https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/p8msx

**Kreamer, L. M., Cobb, H. R., Castille, C., & Cogswell, J.** (2024). Big team science initiatives: A catalyst for trustworthy advancements in IO psychology. *Acta Psychologica*, *242*, 104101. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2023.104101

**Castille, C. M., Köhler, T., & O'Boyle, E. H.** (2023). A brighter vision of the potential of open science for benefiting practice: A ManyOrgs proposal. *Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice*, *16*(1), 85-89. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2022.70

**Castille, C. M., Kreamer, L. M., Albritton, B. H., Banks, G. C., & Rogelberg, S. G.** (2022). The open science challenge: Adopt one practice that enacts widely shared values. *Journal of Business and Psychology*, *37*(3), 567-580. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-022-09806-2

**Moshontz, H., Campbell, L., Ebersole, C. R., IJzerman, H., Urry, H. L., Forscher, P. S., Grahe, J. E., McCarthy, R. J., Musser, E. D., Antfolk, J., Castille, C. M., ... & Chartier, C. R.** (2018). The Psychological Science Accelerator: Advancing psychology through a distributed collaborative network. *Advances in Methods and Practices in Psychological Science*, *1*(4), 501-515. https://doi.org/10.1177/2515245918797607

### Method Variance & Measurement (Sorted by Year)

**Castille, C. M., & Williams, L. J.** (2024). Shedding light on invisible influences: Reviewing HROB scholars' use of unmeasured latent method factors. In *Research in Personnel and Human Resources Management* (Vol. 42, pp. 139-188). Emerald Publishing Limited. https://doi.org/10.1108/s0742-730120240000042007

**Castille, C., & Williams, L. J.** (2022). To partial or not? Re-examining the unmeasured latent method construct (ULMC). *Academy of Management Proceedings*, *2022*(1), 10998. https://doi.org/10.5465/ambpp.2022.10998abstract

**Castille, A. R., Castille, C. M., & Sharma, S.** (2021). The incremental value of controlling for covert insufficient effort responding. *Journal of Organizational Psychology*, *21*(5), 52-68. https://doi.org/10.33423/jop.v21i5.4723

### Related Methodological Work (Sorted by Year)

**Castille, C. M., Sawyer, K., Thoroughgood, C., & Buckner, J.** (2015). Some key research questions for mindfulness interventions. *Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice*, *8*(4), 628-633. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2015.86

---

<h2 class="research-theme-hr">HR Strategy and Tactics</h2>

{{< callout >}}
Applied people analytics must demonstrate business impact. This research applies rigorous analytical methods to real-world HR challenges, including predictive attrition modeling, compensation strategy, and demonstrating the return on investment of HR programs through utility analysis.
{{< /callout >}}

### Selected Publications (Sorted by Year)

**Castille, C. M., & Castille, A. R.** (2019). Disparate treatment and adverse impact in applied attrition modeling. *Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice*, *12*(4), 507-511. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2019.53

Commit message:

Update website: improve news layout, add ongoing studies page, update styling and content

content/publication/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Research"
type: page
layout: publication/list
banner:
  caption: ''
  image: ''
---

My research bridges psychological science with practical organizational applications. I focus on understanding how individual differences shape workplace behavior, developing better methods for organizational research, and translating scientific insights into actionable HR strategies.

Below are three interconnected areas that define my scholarly work.

---

<h2 class="research-theme-paid">Personality and Individual Differences (PAID) at Work</h2>

{{< callout >}}
How do individual characteristics—personality traits, values, and abilities—influence workplace outcomes? This research stream examines both the "bright side" (e.g., conscientiousness, meaningful work) and "dark side" (e.g., Machiavellianism, unethical behavior) of personality at work, with a focus on occupational fit and person-environment alignment.
{{< /callout >}}

### Selected Publications (Sorted by Year)

**Simonet, D. V., & Castille, C. M.** (2020). The search for meaningful work: A network analysis of personality and the job characteristics model. *Personality and Individual Differences*, *154*, 109569. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.2019.109569

**Castille, C. M., Castille, A. R., & Smith, R. W.** (2019). Assessing ideal personalities at work: Is it all just a little bit of history repeating? *Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice*, *12*(4), 407-410. https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/qan42

**Castille, C. M., Buckner, J. E., & Thoroughgood, C. N.** (2018). Prosocial citizens without a moral compass? Examining the relationship between Machiavellianism and unethical pro-organizational behavior. *Journal of Business Ethics*, *149*(4), 919-930. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-016-3079-9

**Castille, C., & Fultz, A.** (2018). How does collaborative cheating emerge? A case study of the Volkswagen emissions scandal. *Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences*. https://doi.org/10.24251/hicss.2018.014

**Castille, C. M., Kuyumcu, D., & Bennett, R. J.** (2017). Prevailing to the peers' detriment: Organizational constraints motivate Machiavellians to undermine their peers. *Personality and Individual Differences*, *104*, 29-36. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.2016.07.026

**Castille, C. M.** (2015). *Bright or dark, or virtues and vices? A reexamination of the big five and job performance* [Doctoral dissertation, Louisiana Tech University]. https://doi.org/10.18297/etd/194

**Castille, C. M., & Sheets, T. L.** (2012). The Five Factor Model of personality and employees' excessive use of technology. *Computers in Human Behavior*, *28*(5), 1947-1953. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2012.05.014

**Levy, J. J., Castille, C. M., & Farley, J. A.** (2011). An investigation of musical performance anxiety in the marching arts. *Medical Problems of Performing Artists*, *26*(1), 23-28. https://doi.org/10.21091/mppa.2011.1004

---

<h2 class="research-theme-methods">Organizational Research Methods</h2>

{{< callout >}}
High-quality people analytics requires high-quality methods. This research develops and validates better approaches to organizational research, including open science practices that increase transparency and reproducibility, and techniques for understanding and controlling method variance in applied settings.
{{< /callout >}}

### Open Science & Replication (Sorted by Year)

**Banks, G. C., Rasmussen, L. M., Tonidandel, S., Pollack, J. M., Hausfeld, M. M., Williams, C., Albritton, B. H., Allen, J. A., Bastardoz, N., Batchelor, J. H., ... Castille, C. M., ... & others** (2025). Women's and men's authorship experiences: A prospective meta-analysis. *Perspectives on Psychological Science*. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1177/01492063251315701

**Castille, C. M.** (2024). A Primer on Open Science for Industrial-Organizational Psychologists. *The Industrial-Organizational Psychologist*, *61*(3), 45-58. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2022.70

**Guzzo, R. A., & Castille, C. M.** (2024). Translational science, open science, and accelerating practical impact. *The Industrial-Organizational Psychologist*, *61*(4). https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/p8msx

**Kreamer, L. M., Cobb, H. R., Castille, C., & Cogswell, J.** (2024). Big team science initiatives: A catalyst for trustworthy advancements in IO psychology. *Acta Psychologica*, *242*, 104101. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2023.104101

**Castille, C. M., Köhler, T., & O'Boyle, E. H.** (2023). A brighter vision of the potential of open science for benefiting practice: A ManyOrgs proposal. *Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice*, *16*(1), 85-89. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2022.70

**Castille, C. M., Kreamer, L. M., Albritton, B. H., Banks, G. C., & Rogelberg, S. G.** (2022). The open science challenge: Adopt one practice that enacts widely shared values. *Journal of Business and Psychology*, *37*(3), 567-580. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-022-09806-2

**Moshontz, H., Campbell, L., Ebersole, C. R., IJzerman, H., Urry, H. L., Forscher, P. S., Grahe, J. E., McCarthy, R. J., Musser, E. D., Antfolk, J., Castille, C. M., ... & Chartier, C. R.** (2018). The Psychological Science Accelerator: Advancing psychology through a distributed collaborative network. *Advances in Methods and Practices in Psychological Science*, *1*(4), 501-515. https://doi.org/10.1177/2515245918797607

### Method Variance & Measurement (Sorted by Year)

**Williams, L. J., Culpepper, S. A., & Castille, C. M.** (in press). In defense of the RMSEA-p for latent variable model evaluation: A failed reproducibility study of Lance et al. (2016). *Journal of Management Scientific Reports*.

**Castille, C. M., & Williams, L. J.** (2024). Shedding light on invisible influences: Reviewing HROB scholars' use of unmeasured latent method factors. In *Research in Personnel and Human Resources Management* (Vol. 42, pp. 139-188). Emerald Publishing Limited. https://doi.org/10.1108/s0742-730120240000042007

**Castille, C., & Williams, L. J.** (2022). To partial or not? Re-examining the unmeasured latent method construct (ULMC). *Academy of Management Proceedings*, *2022*(1), 10998. https://doi.org/10.5465/ambpp.2022.10998abstract

**Castille, A. R., Castille, C. M., & Sharma, S.** (2021). The incremental value of controlling for covert insufficient effort responding. *Journal of Organizational Psychology*, *21*(5), 52-68. https://doi.org/10.33423/jop.v21i5.4723

### Related Methodological Work (Sorted by Year)

**Castille, C. M., Sawyer, K., Thoroughgood, C., & Buckner, J.** (2015). Some key research questions for mindfulness interventions. *Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice*, *8*(4), 628-633. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2015.86

---

<h2 class="research-theme-hr">HR Strategy and Tactics</h2>

{{< callout >}}
Applied people analytics must demonstrate business impact. This research applies analytical methods to real-world HR challenges, including predictive attrition modeling, compensation strategy, and demonstrating the return on investment of HR programs through utility analysis.
{{< /callout >}}

### Selected Publications (Sorted by Year)

**Castille, C. M., & Castille, A. R.** (2019). Disparate treatment and adverse impact in applied attrition modeling. *Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice*, *12*(4), 507-511. https://doi.org/10.1017/iop.2019.53
