content/post/welcome-to-pal-of-the-bayou/index.md, before:

---
title: "Welcome to the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou"
authors:
  - admin
date: "2025-01-25T00:00:00Z"
doi: ""
publishDate: "2025-01-25T00:00:00Z"
publication_types: ["0"]
publication: ""
publication_short: ""
abstract: "Welcome to the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou! This post explains the motivation for the website, my teaching philosophy, and my commitment to open science."
summary: "An introduction to our new research lab, teaching philosophy, and open science initiatives."
tags:
  - Organizational Behavior
  - Workplace Analytics
  - Research
featured: false
projects: []
slides: ""

url_pdf: ""
url_code: ""
url_dataset: ""
url_poster: ""
url_project: ""
url_slides: ""
url_source: ""
url_video: ""

image:
  caption: "People Analytics Lab of the Bayou"
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false

---

## Why I'm Building This Website

Welcome to the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou! I'm launching this website to make my research and teaching resources more accessible to the public, students, and fellow scholars. As someone who studies people in organizations, I'm passionate about understanding—and helping others understand—the complex forces that drive workplace behavior and effectiveness.

### What is People Analytics?

People analytics—also known as HR analytics or workforce analytics—refers to the use of data analysis techniques to understand, improve, and optimize workforce-related decisions. It involves integrating data from multiple sources (e.g., HRIS, surveys, performance management systems) to generate actionable insights that support strategic goals across recruitment, retention, engagement, and productivity. In contemporary applications, people analytics often employs machine learning, predictive modeling, and data visualization to support evidence-based decision-making across the employee lifecycle (Culture Amp, 2024; Whatfix, 2023). As organizations face evolving workplace dynamics, including hybrid work and growing emphasis on well-being and inclusion, people analytics has become a critical function for aligning human capital strategy with business performance (EarnIn, 2024).

### Why Create a "People Analytics Lab of the Bayou"?

I created this lab in the hopes of attracting both students and industry partners interested in learning and applying the science of people at work. I specialize in a few areas, namely personality at work, goal striving behavior, and advanced modeling techniques (e.g., structural equation modeling, multi-level modeling, text analysis). As bayou native from New Iberia, LA, I'm deeply interested in applying this science to help improve organizational settings in my own community and beyond (hence the 'of the bayou' tagline). It isn't a lab in the sense that there is a physical space here on campus where we study people in work settings, but rather a virtual hub for sharing resources and collaborating on research projects.

### My Teaching Philosophy

Before I started my professional career as an academician, I was inspired by fellow organizational psychologist, Adam Grant, whose teaching philosophy struck me as worth emulating to some degree (see Erez & Grant, 2014). It defined my approach to teaching and still does to this day. I'll paraphrase it briefly here. 

> I take it as my personal responsibility to expose students to evidence-based management (EBM; Barends & Rousseau, 2018) so that they might make wiser decisions as employees, managers, and business leaders. In my classes, we discuss the most credible science available on various topics, weighing scientific evidence against our own experiences and the views of professionals, and ultimately considering how best to act given this information. My goal is to help students cultivate an attitude of wisdom—acting with the best information on hand while doubting what they believe to be true (Erez & Grant, 2014).

EBM is about making decisions through the conscientious, explicit, and judicious use of the best available evidence to increase the likelihood of a favorable outcome (see Barends & Rousseau, 2018). I strive to be a role model of evidence-based decision making, helping students see how to acquire and use information to make decisions in organizational settings. This is not always easy to do in an environment that prides intuition and rock-solid evidence; often, the evidence-base we rely upon is more limited than we'd like. I'm always learning how to more effectively navigate the ambiguity this brings.

### What I'm working on?

One of my goals is to help students grasp challenging concepts—like evaluating the utility of HR interventions—by making abstract ideas tangible. For example, I'm developing apps that generate organic organizational data based on decisions students make in the Interpretive Simulations HRManagement simulation. This approach helps students see the direct connection between their choices and outcomes such as voluntary turnover, morale, and productivity (Guzzo, 2022).

I am also a leader in the open science movement, which aims to make research more transparent, reproducible, and replicable. My work has focused on advocating for open science practices and integrating them into my own research pipeline. Currently, I serve on the executive team for the Advancement of Replications Initiative in Management (ARIM, [arimweb.org](https://arimweb.org)), specifically on a project examining the dark side of goal setting. Through ARIM, we implement open science practices to benefit our research and to train the next generation of doctoral students.

### Looking Ahead

This website will serve as a hub for sharing my research, teaching tools, and open science initiatives. I hope it will help students, practitioners, and researchers engage more deeply with people analytics and organizational science.

---

### References

Barends, E., & Rousseau, D. M. (2018). *Evidence-based management: How to use evidence to make better organizational decisions*. Kogan Page.

Culture Amp. (2024). The ultimate guide to people analytics. https://www.cultureamp.com/blog/people-analytics-guide

EarnIn. (2024). What is people analytics & how can it improve HR? https://www.earnin.com/blog/people-analytics

Erez, A., & Grant, A. M. (2014). Separating data from intuition: Bringing evidence into the management classroom. *Academy of Management Learning & Education, 13*(1), 104–119. https://doi.org/10.5465/amle.2013.0098

Guzzo, R. (2022). Organizational data and its implications for research and theory. In K. R. Murphy (Ed.), *Data, Methods and Theory in the Organizational Sciences: A New Synthesis* (1st ed.). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003015000 

Whatfix. (2023). What is people analytics? Definition, types & how to use it. https://whatfix.com/blog/people-analytics

Commit message:

Fix contact page map coordinates to point to Nicholls State University campus instead of general Thibodaux area

content/post/welcome-to-pal-of-the-bayou/index.md, after:

---
title: "Welcome to the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou"
authors:
  - admin
date: "2025-01-25T00:00:00Z"
doi: ""
publishDate: "2025-01-25T00:00:00Z"
publication_types: ["0"]
publication: ""
publication_short: ""
abstract: "Welcome to the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou! This post explains the motivation for the website, my teaching philosophy, and my commitment to open science."
summary: "An introduction to our new research lab, teaching philosophy, and open science initiatives."
tags:
  - Organizational Behavior
  - Workplace Analytics
  - Research
featured: false
projects: []
slides: ""

url_pdf: ""
url_code: ""
url_dataset: ""
url_poster: ""
url_project: ""
url_slides: ""
url_source: ""
url_video: ""

image:
  caption: "People Analytics Lab of the Bayou"
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false

---

## Why I'm Building This Website

Welcome to the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou! I'm launching this website to make my research and teaching resources more accessible to the public, students, and fellow scholars. As someone who studies people in organizations, I'm passionate about understanding—and helping others understand—the complex forces that drive workplace behavior and effectiveness.

### What is People Analytics?

People analytics—also known as HR analytics or workforce analytics—refers to the use of data analysis techniques to understand, improve, and optimize workforce-related decisions. It involves integrating data from multiple sources (e.g., HRIS, surveys, performance management systems) to generate actionable insights that support strategic goals across recruitment, retention, engagement, and productivity. In contemporary applications, people analytics often employs machine learning, predictive modeling, and data visualization to support evidence-based decision-making across the employee lifecycle (Culture Amp, 2024; Whatfix, 2023). As organizations face evolving workplace dynamics, including hybrid work and growing emphasis on well-being and inclusion, people analytics has become a critical function for aligning human capital strategy with business performance (EarnIn, 2024).

### Why Create a "People Analytics Lab of the Bayou"?

I created this lab in the hopes of attracting both students and industry partners interested in learning and applying the science of people at work. I specialize in a few areas, namely personality at work, goal striving behavior, and advanced modeling techniques (e.g., ideal-point psychological assessment, structural equation modeling, multi-level modeling, text analysis). As bayou native from New Iberia, LA, I'm deeply interested in applying this science to help improve organizational settings in my own community and beyond (hence the 'of the bayou' tagline). It isn't a lab in the sense that there is a physical space here on campus where we study people in work settings, but rather a virtual hub for sharing resources and collaborating on research projects.

My mission is to identify 'bright spots' in our community where organization's and their leaders are putting the science of the workplace into practice. My hope is to both contribute to the science of the workplace and celebrate those partners who make this science possible (e.g., publishing in *Harvard Business Review*, *MIT Sloan Management Review*, *The Economist*). If you are interested in collaborating on research or learning more about how to apply people analytics in your organization, please reach out by emailing me at christopher.castille@nicholls.edu. Students can also get involved by helping me gather data or formulating intersting questions worth answering with data.

### My Teaching Philosophy

Before I started my professional career as an academician, I was inspired by fellow organizational psychologist, Adam Grant, whose teaching philosophy struck me as worth emulating to some degree (see Erez & Grant, 2014). It defined my approach to teaching and still does to this day. I'll paraphrase it briefly here. 

> I take it as my personal responsibility to expose students to evidence-based management (EBM; Barends & Rousseau, 2018) so that they might make wiser decisions as employees, managers, and business leaders. In my classes, we discuss the most credible science available on various topics, weighing scientific evidence against our own experiences and the views of professionals, and ultimately considering how best to act given this information. My goal is to help students cultivate an attitude of wisdom—acting with the best information on hand while doubting what they believe to be true (Erez & Grant, 2014).

EBM is about making decisions through the conscientious, explicit, and judicious use of the best available evidence to increase the likelihood of a favorable outcome (see Barends & Rousseau, 2018). I strive to be a role model of evidence-based decision making, helping students see how to acquire and use information to make decisions in organizational settings. This is not always easy to do in an environment that prides intuition and rock-solid evidence; often, the evidence-base we rely upon is more limited than we'd like. I'm always learning how to more effectively navigate the ambiguity this brings.

### What I'm working on?

One of my goals is to help students grasp challenging concepts—like evaluating the utility of HR interventions—by making abstract ideas tangible. For example, I'm developing apps that generate organic organizational data based on decisions students make in the Interpretive Simulations HRManagement simulation. This approach helps students see the direct connection between their choices and outcomes such as voluntary turnover, morale, and productivity (Guzzo, 2022).

I am also a leader in the open science movement, which aims to make research more transparent, reproducible, and replicable. My work has focused on advocating for open science practices and integrating them into my own research pipeline. Currently, I serve on the executive team for the Advancement of Replications Initiative in Management (ARIM, [arimweb.org](https://arimweb.org)), specifically on a project examining the dark side of goal setting. Through ARIM, we implement open science practices to benefit our research and to train the next generation of doctoral students.

### Looking Ahead

This website will serve as a hub for sharing my research, teaching tools, and open science initiatives. I hope it will help students, practitioners, and researchers engage more deeply with people analytics and organizational science.

---

### References

Barends, E., & Rousseau, D. M. (2018). *Evidence-based management: How to use evidence to make better organizational decisions*. Kogan Page.

Culture Amp. (2024). The ultimate guide to people analytics. https://www.cultureamp.com/blog/people-analytics-guide

EarnIn. (2024). What is people analytics & how can it improve HR? https://www.earnin.com/blog/people-analytics

Erez, A., & Grant, A. M. (2014). Separating data from intuition: Bringing evidence into the management classroom. *Academy of Management Learning & Education, 13*(1), 104–119. https://doi.org/10.5465/amle.2013.0098

Guzzo, R. (2022). Organizational data and its implications for research and theory. In K. R. Murphy (Ed.), *Data, Methods and Theory in the Organizational Sciences: A New Synthesis* (1st ed.). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003015000 

Whatfix. (2023). What is people analytics? Definition, types & how to use it. https://whatfix.com/blog/people-analytics
