content/authors/admin/_index.md, before:

---
# Display name
title: Christopher M. Castille

# Full Name (for SEO)
first_name: Christopher
last_name: Castille

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: true

# Role/position
role: Lab Director & Gerald Gaston Endowed Associate Professor of Management

# Organizations/Affiliations
organizations:
  - name: Nicholls State University
    url: 'https://www.nicholls.edu/management/faculty-staff/dr-chris-castille/'

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
bio: My research interests include People Analytics, Personality and Individual Differences in the Workplace, and Open Science.

interests:
  - People Analytics
  - Personality and Individual Differences in the Workplace
  - Open Science

education:
  courses:
    - course: PhD in Industrial/Organizational Psychology
      institution: Louisiana Tech University
      year: 2015
    - course: MA in Industrial/Organizational Psychology
      institution: Louisiana Tech University
      year: 2012
    - course: BS in Business Administration
      institution: Louisiana State University
      year: 2008

# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://docs.hugoblox.com/getting-started/page-builder/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "#contact" for contact widget.
social:
  - icon: envelope
    icon_pack: fas
    link: 'mailto:christopher.castille@nicholls.edu'
  - icon: google-scholar
    icon_pack: ai
    link: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=vO-9e7MAAAAJ
  - icon: linkedin
    icon_pack: fab
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopher-castille/
# Link to a PDF of your resume/CV from the About widget.
# To enable, copy your resume/CV to `static/files/cv.pdf` and uncomment the lines below.
# - icon: cv
#   icon_pack: ai
#   link: files/cv.pdf

# Enter email to display Gravatar (if Gravatar enabled in Config)
email: 'christopher.castille@nicholls.edu'

# Highlight the author in author lists? (true/false)
highlight_name: true

# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.
user_groups:
  - Principal Investigators
---

Dr. Christopher M. Castille is the Director of the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou and the Gerald Gaston Endowed Associate Professor of Management at Nicholls State University. He teaches undergraduate students in Human Relations and Interpersonal Skills (MNGT 370), Performance and Compensation Management (MNGT 475), and HR Analytics (MNGT 425). He also teaches in the graduate (MBA) and Executive MBA programs where he teaches Managing Human Capital (MNGT 502). He is particularly interested in understanding how organizational practices impact employee performance and organizational effectiveness.

Commit message:

Update website: enhanced bio, new homepage layout, improved contact page
- Add Leadership Lafourche recognition to bio
- Implement dual slideshow layout on homepage
- Enhance contact page with functional form
- Improve layout components with modern styling

content/authors/admin/_index.md, after:

---
# Display name
title: Christopher M. Castille

# Full Name (for SEO)
first_name: Christopher
last_name: Castille

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: true

# Role/position
role: Lab Director & Gerald Gaston Endowed Associate Professor of Management

# Organizations/Affiliations
organizations:
  - name: Nicholls State University
    url: 'https://www.nicholls.edu/management/faculty-staff/dr-chris-castille/'

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
bio: My research interests include People Analytics, Personality and Individual Differences in the Workplace, and Open Science.

interests:
  - People Analytics
  - Personality and Individual Differences in the Workplace
  - Open Science

education:
  courses:
    - course: PhD in Industrial/Organizational Psychology
      institution: Louisiana Tech University
      year: 2015
    - course: MA in Industrial/Organizational Psychology
      institution: Louisiana Tech University
      year: 2012
    - course: BS in Business Administration
      institution: Louisiana State University
      year: 2008

# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://docs.hugoblox.com/getting-started/page-builder/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "#contact" for contact widget.
social:
  - icon: envelope
    icon_pack: fas
    link: 'mailto:christopher.castille@nicholls.edu'
  - icon: google-scholar
    icon_pack: ai
    link: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=vO-9e7MAAAAJ
  - icon: linkedin
    icon_pack: fab
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopher-castille/
# Link to a PDF of your resume/CV from the About widget.
# To enable, copy your resume/CV to `static/files/cv.pdf` and uncomment the lines below.
# - icon: cv
#   icon_pack: ai
#   link: files/cv.pdf

# Enter email to display Gravatar (if Gravatar enabled in Config)
email: 'christopher.castille@nicholls.edu'

# Highlight the author in author lists? (true/false)
highlight_name: true

# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.
user_groups:
  - Principal Investigators
---

Dr. Christopher M. Castille is the Director of the People Analytics Lab of the Bayou and the Gerald Gaston Endowed Associate Professor of Management at Nicholls State University. He was recognized as one of Leadership Lafourche's [2024 Best of Lafourche Forty Under Forty](https://www.lafourchegazette.com/local_news/leadership-lafourche-honors-2024-s-best-of-lafourche-forty-under-forty/article_0fd64224-919f-11ef-9447-9b3f424c9316.html) honorees. He teaches undergraduate students in Human Relations and Interpersonal Skills (MNGT 370), Performance and Compensation Management (MNGT 475), and HR Analytics (MNGT 425). He also teaches in the graduate (MBA) and Executive MBA programs where he teaches Managing Human Capital (MNGT 502). He is particularly interested in understanding how organizational practices impact employee performance and organizational effectiveness.
